CHAPTER I. Thomas Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER II. Thomas Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER III. Thomas Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER IV. Thomas Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER XIX. Thomas Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER XX. Thomas Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER XXII. Thomas Harker’s Journal
said, “The Herr Englishman?” “Yes,” I said, “Thomas Harker.” She
I shall be all alone, and my friend Harker Thomas--nay, pardon me, I
Thomas Harker will not be by my side to correct and aid me. He will be
lately, because I want to keep up with Thomas’s studies, and I have
be able to be useful to Thomas, and if I can stenograph well enough I
intended for them. I may show it to Thomas some day if there is in it
plans when we meet. I have just had a few hurried lines from Thomas
countries. I wonder if we--I mean Thomas and I--shall ever see them
engaged to Thomas. He is an excellent _parti_, being handsome, well
it a secret, dear, from _every one_, except, of course, Thomas. You
haven’t heard from Thomas for a whole month.
letter for me. I hope there cannot be anything the matter with Thomas.
both. I wonder where Thomas is and if he is thinking of me! I wish he
different from writing. I am unhappy about Lucy and about Thomas. I
had not heard from Thomas for some time, and was very concerned; but
and says that he is just starting for home. That is not like Thomas;
to be arranged. I sympathise with her, for I do the same, only Thomas
_27 July._--No news from Thomas. I am getting quite uneasy about him,
_3 August._--Another week gone, and no news from Thomas, not even to
feel easier; but no one has heard a word of Thomas since that last
felt glad that Thomas was not on the sea last night, but on land. But,
quite happy if I only knew if Thomas.... God bless and keep him.
Thomas been with me. But there! I must only be patient. In the evening
Thomas, and then she tried to comfort me. Well, she succeeded
sadness, for I was thinking of Thomas. When coming home--it was then
No news from Thomas, and Lucy seems to be growing weaker, whilst her
Thomas. The dear fellow has been ill; that is why he did not write. I
morning and go over to Thomas, and to help to nurse him if necessary,
Thomas, and must be next my heart, for he is _in_ my heart. My journey
to Thomas, my husband. The letter that he has seen and touched must
“I write by desire of Mr. Thomas Harker, who is himself not strong
knew I was coming to Thomas, and, that as I should have to do some
_my_ being jealous about Thomas! And yet, my dear, let me whisper, I
after as Thomas awakes....
happy. Thomas woke a little after the hour, and all was ready, and he
once, and, perhaps, write you very soon again. I must stop, for Thomas
stay with us here. The strong air would soon restore Thomas; it has
my will I have left you everything.’ I cried, Lucy dear, as Thomas and
housekeeping. Thomas and Mr. Hawkins are busy all day; for, now that
Thomas is a partner, Mr. Hawkins wants to tell him all about the
shoulders; and Thomas wants looking after still. He is beginning to
you which will not be dear to me. Thomas asks me to send his
Thomas is greatly distressed. It is not only that he feels sorrow,
dream of avarice, but Thomas feels it on another account. He says the
for the strain of keeping up a brave and cheerful appearance to Thomas
father. As there are no relations at all, Thomas will have to be chief
_22 September._--In the train to Exeter. Thomas sleeping.
between then, in Whitby and all the world before me, Thomas away and
no news of him; and now, married to Thomas, Thomas a solicitor, a
Thomas with another attack that may harm him. Some day he may ask me
President of the Incorporated Law Society. Thomas and I stood hand in
Thomas thought it would interest me to go into the Row for a while, so
Thomas was holding me by the arm, the way he used to in old days
pedantry of it biting into yourself a bit; but it was Thomas, and he
when I felt Thomas clutch my arm so tight that he hurt me, and he said
under his breath: “My God!” I am always anxious about Thomas, for I
Thomas kept staring at him, till I was afraid he would notice. I
Thomas why he was disturbed, and he answered, evidently thinking that
hansom. Thomas kept looking after him, and said, as if to himself:--
After a few minutes’ staring at nothing, Thomas’s eyes closed, and he
must open that parcel, and know what is written. Oh, Thomas, you will,
soul who was so good to us; Thomas still pale and dizzy under a slight
_23 September_.--Thomas is better after a bad night. I am so glad that
and now how proud I am to see my Thomas rising to the height of his
record of Thomas’s upset me so. Poor dear! How he must have suffered,
poor Thomas may not be upset, for I can speak for him and never let
him be troubled or worried with it at all. If ever Thomas quite gets
it will throw some light upon Thomas’s sad experience; and as he
sleep-walking, and not about Thomas. Then I shall never know the real
then Thomas went away this morning to stay away from me a whole day
now. I shall say nothing of Thomas’s journal unless he asks me. I am
possible, or even a part of it? If I had not read Thomas’s journal
Thomas! How he must have suffered. Please the good God, all this may
noble nature. When he comes to-morrow I shall ask him about Thomas;
end. I used to think I would like to practise interviewing; Thomas’s
“Oh, you so clever woman!” he said. “I knew long that Mr. Thomas was a
Thomas, so I said:--
overwhelm me in a rush. The pity for Thomas, the horror which he
Husband Thomas would not like to see you so pale; and what he like not
husband Thomas’s trouble so far as you can, but not yet. You must eat
Thomas a madman--that journal is all so strange--and I hesitated to go
Thomas’s. It is the copy of his journal when abroad, and all that
“Thomas will be here at half-past eleven, and you must come to lunch
up all the trains to and from Exeter, so that I may help Thomas in
wire from Thomas, saying that he leaves by the 6:25 to-night from
_Thomas Harker’s Journal._
He is cunning, as I know from Mr. Thomas and from the way that all
     “Am coming up by train. Thomas at Whitby. Important news.--MINA
a diary kept by Thomas Harker when abroad, and gave me a typewritten
_29 September._--I was so absorbed in that wonderful diary of Thomas
out. Thomas and I have been working day and night since Professor Van
had not known Thomas’s experience in Transylvania I could not have
when he comes. I have sent a telegram to Thomas to come on here when
remembered what Thomas put in his diary of the Professor’s
_Thomas Harker’s Journal._
detrimentally on Thomas. I saw him leave for Whitby with as brave a
expected. Dr. Seward was out on business, and had taken Thomas with
next to him on his right, and asked me to act as secretary; Thomas sat
Whilst he was speaking, Thomas had taken my hand. I feared, oh so
his right hand, and Lord Godalming his left; Thomas held my right with
Thomas, who lived with him for weeks, did never see him to eat, never!
Thomas observe. He has the strength of many of his hand--witness again
Thomas when he shut the door against the wolfs, and when he help him
come on moonlight rays as elemental dust--as again Thomas saw those
proceed to lay out our campaign. We know from the inquiry of Thomas
All the men, even Thomas, seemed relieved; but it did not seem to me
to sleep, lest Thomas have added anxiety about me when he returns.
“You know this place, Thomas. You have copied maps of it, and you know
after Thomas’s full confidence for so many years, to see him
Thomas was late too, he was the earlier. He spoke to me before he went
That has done me good. Well, some day Thomas will tell me all; and
kept thinking over everything that has been ever since Thomas came to
has come over me to-day. I must hide it from Thomas, for if he knew
morning, when Thomas woke me. I think that it took me an effort and a
little time to realise where I was, and that it was Thomas who was
I thought that I was asleep, and waiting for Thomas to come back. I
around. The gaslight which I had left lit for Thomas, but turned down,
Church. Suddenly the horror burst upon me that it was thus that Thomas
slept soundly, for I was not waked by Thomas coming to bed; but the
is a new weakness, of which I must be careful. Thomas would be
of what had occurred to each during the day; I could see from Thomas’s
“This has been a great day’s work, friend Thomas. Doubtless we are on
was light enough to see. On the bed beside the window lay Thomas
“Thomas is in a stupor such as we know the Vampire can produce. We can
“No! no! Thomas, you must not leave me. I have suffered enough
more. Thomas coming in had not waked me, for he lay by my side when
I turned to wake Thomas, but found that he slept so soundly that it
red scar on his forehead where Thomas had struck him. For an instant
pointing as he spoke to Thomas:--
his hand warningly. “Nay, friend Thomas,” he said, “in this, the
friend Thomas, you go take the lock off a hundred empty house in this
There was a pause, broken by Thomas Harker’s voice:--
“Thomas,” she said, and the word sounded like music on her lips it was
so full of love and tenderness, “Thomas dear, and you all my true,
Thomas, my husband; or you will crush me with fear and horror. Just
_Thomas Harker’s Journal._
“Oh, my dear Madam Mina, this is indeed a change. See! friend Thomas,
Count’s mind, when he seize that money, though Thomas’s so fierce
This to Thomas Harker.
_Thomas Harker’s Journal._
Helsing, Lord Godalming, Dr. Seward, Mr. Quincey Morris, Thomas
pursue the Count, for oh! I dread Thomas leaving me, and I know that
_Thomas Harker’s Journal._
“Thomas, I want you to promise me something on your word of honour. A
wile; by any device to hoodwink--even Thomas.” God saw the look that
_11 October, Evening._--Thomas Harker has asked me to note this, as he
_Thomas Harker’s Journal._
“You forget--or perhaps you do not know, though Thomas does and so
you, friend Thomas, go to the agent of the ship and get from him
read here what Thomas have written:--
sort to the official, we being in extreme hurry. Thomas and the two
_Thomas Harker’s Journal._
It is all done; poor dear, dear Thomas, what he must have suffered,
When I had done reading, Thomas took me in his arms and kissed me. The
we are sure that he cannot re-incarnate.” He looked at Thomas as he
spoke, and Thomas looked at me. I could see that the poor dear was
“Friend Thomas, this is to you for twice reasons. First, because you
friend Thomas go in your so swift little steamboat up the river, and
perish--we shall go in the track where Thomas went,--from Bistritz
Thomas interrupted him hotly:--
see. We men here, all save Thomas, have seen with their own eyes what
company, and would be as those others that you, Thomas, saw. You have
“Do as you will,” said Thomas, with a sob that shook him all over, “we
of us was to do; and now Lord Godalming and Thomas have a lovely steam
large-bore revolver; Thomas would not be happy unless I was armed like
_Thomas Harker’s Journal._
see it all. If Thomas and I were driving through it alone what a
my beloved husband; that whatever may happen, Thomas may know that I
Thomas, but somehow I have now no fear for him, or for myself. I write
Thomas travelled it and wrote of his travel?”
they go on so patient. By-and-by we find all the things which Thomas
steep-rising hill, on summit of which was such a castle as Thomas tell
all the terrible anxiety. It was as though my memories of all Thomas’s
in actual flesh the same three women that Thomas saw in the room, when
her, and said in those so sweet tingling tones that Thomas said were
_Thomas Harker’s Journal._
being entered I might not get out. Thomas’s bitter experience served
which, like Thomas I had seen to gather herself out of the atoms of
took our way towards the east whence I knew Thomas was coming. We did
and Mr. Morris. I knew at all events that neither of them was Thomas.
At the same time I _knew_ that Thomas was not far off; looking around
break-neck speed. One of them I knew was Thomas, and the other I took,
All at once two voices shouted out to: “Halt!” One was my Thomas’s,
and Thomas dashed up at one side and Dr. Seward and Mr. Morris on the
Thomas in such danger, but that the ardour of battle must have been
In the midst of this I could see that Thomas on one side of the ring
attention. Thomas’s impetuosity, and the manifest singleness of his
Szgany. All the time I had been breathlessly watching Thomas I had,
beside Thomas, who had by now jumped from the cart, I could see that
as Thomas, with desperate energy, attacked one end of the chest,
But, on the instant, came the sweep and flash of Thomas’s great knife.
two doctors. Thomas knelt behind him and the wounded man laid back his
